README.md, before:

# phuntainer
_(noun)_ A Fun Container for Phabricator! This is a Docker image that provides a ready-to-run Phabricator instance, with minimal user setup.

This container auto-updates with the latest "stable" branch source from the following official Phacility (maintainer of Phabricator) repositories:

* [GitHub: Phacility/Phabricator](https://github.com/phacility/phabricator.git)
* [GitHub: Phacility/libphutil](https://github.com/phacility/libphutil.git)
* [GitHub: Phacility/Arcanist](https://github.com/phacility/arcanist.git)

## Using phuntainer

This is assuming a manual setup. The following could be converted to a Docker Compose fairly easy -- some assembly required there.

### Docker Network

Create a new Docker network:
```
$ PHAB_NETWORK_NAME=network-phabricator
$ docker network create ${PHAB_NETWORK_NAME}
```

Alternatively, replace the PHAB_NETWORK_NAME variable in the following commands with an existing Docker network you wish to use.

### Storage -- Host filesystem and MySQL server

Define some path on the host machine to store data for both the SQL Database and Phabricator:
```
$ HOST_STORAGE_PATH=/some/host/path
```

Create a MariaDB container:
```
$ docker run -d \
    --name phabsql \
    --network ${PHAB_NETWORK_NAME} \
    --restart=unless-stopped \
    -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=rpass12345 \
    -v ${HOST_STORAGE_PATH}/sql:/var/lib/mysql \
    mariadb:10.4 --local-infile=0 --max_allowed_packet=64M
```

Replace '${HOST_STORAGE_PATH}/sql' with a path to where you want the SQL storage to be, or use a Docker volume instead. Make sure it is set to _something_ though, so the database will persist across container re/starts.

Currently, this is configured for Phabricator to use the 'root' database user. I tried a setup with a separate SQL user account, but the Phabricator 'bin/storage' doesn't assist with separate user permissions for some reason?! Asinine, and I'll consider that an upstream issue, and therefore not worth my time to fix. If you'd like to submit a Pull Request that solves this, I'll consider it :)

Of course, you can use the MySQL container instead of MariaDB if you'd like.


### The actual Phuntainer!

Before starting Phuntainer, create a file in ```${HOST_STORAGE_PATH}/local.json``` and fill it with at minimum MySQL configurations. And example local.json file is in this repo's [phuntainer/files/local.json](https://github.com/staehle/phuntainer/blob/master/phuntainer/files/local.json)

Create the Phuntainer container:
```
$ docker run -d \
    --name phabricator \
    --network ${PHAB_NETWORK_NAME} \
    --restart=unless-stopped \
    -p 80:80 \
    -p 443:443 \
    -v ${HOST_STORAGE_PATH}/local.json:/phabricator/conf/local/local.json \
    -v ${HOST_STORAGE_PATH}/extensions:/phabricator/src/extensions \
    -v ${HOST_STORAGE_PATH}/repodata:/var/repo \
    staehle/phuntainer:latest
```


### Phuntainer Environment Variable Configuration

`DO_NOT_UPGRADE_ON_BOOT`: If set to any value, will **skip** the upgrading process for Phabricator and dependencies on container start.


## Phabricator Configuration

Hey, you should follow this guide after starting Phuntainer: [Official Phabricator User Documentation](https://secure.phabricator.com/book/phabricator/)

Sometimes, you'll need to run some './bin/config' commands from outside the Web UI. To do this, you can use 'docker exec' to directly manipulate your running Phuntainer. For example:

```
$ docker exec phabricator ./bin/config set <key> <value>
```


## Building the Phuntainer image from scratch

You don't need to do this if you're just pulling the image from Docker Hub

```
cd phuntainer
cat build-cmd-latest | bash -
```

Commit message:

Replace local.json mount with /config mount, PUID should work, start PHD with custom user

README.md, after:

# phuntainer
_(noun)_ A Fun Container for Phabricator! This is a Docker image that provides a ready-to-run Phabricator instance, with minimal user setup.

This container auto-updates with the latest "stable" branch source from the following official Phacility (maintainer of Phabricator) repositories:

* [GitHub: Phacility/Phabricator](https://github.com/phacility/phabricator.git)
* [GitHub: Phacility/libphutil](https://github.com/phacility/libphutil.git)
* [GitHub: Phacility/Arcanist](https://github.com/phacility/arcanist.git)

## Using phuntainer

This is assuming a manual setup. The following could be converted to a Docker Compose fairly easy -- some assembly required there.

### Docker Network

Create a new Docker network:
```
$ PHAB_NETWORK_NAME=network-phabricator
$ docker network create ${PHAB_NETWORK_NAME}
```

Alternatively, replace the PHAB_NETWORK_NAME variable in the following commands with an existing Docker network you wish to use.

### Storage -- Host filesystem and MySQL server

Define some path on the host machine to store data for both the SQL Database and Phabricator:
```
$ HOST_STORAGE_PATH=/some/host/path
```

Create a MariaDB container:
```
$ docker run -d \
    --name phabsql \
    --network ${PHAB_NETWORK_NAME} \
    --restart=unless-stopped \
    -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=rpass12345 \
    -v ${HOST_STORAGE_PATH}/sql:/var/lib/mysql \
    mariadb:10.4 --local-infile=0 --max_allowed_packet=64M
```

Replace '${HOST_STORAGE_PATH}/sql' with a path to where you want the SQL storage to be, or use a Docker volume instead. Make sure it is set to _something_ though, so the database will persist across container re/starts.

Currently, this is configured for Phabricator to use the 'root' database user. I tried a setup with a separate SQL user account, but the Phabricator 'bin/storage' doesn't assist with separate user permissions for some reason?! Asinine, and I'll consider that an upstream issue, and therefore not worth my time to fix. If you'd like to submit a Pull Request that solves this, I'll consider it :)

Of course, you can use the MySQL container instead of MariaDB if you'd like.


### The actual Phuntainer!

#### Volumes and Configuration

Required volumes:

* ```${HOST_STORAGE_PATH}/config``` to ```/config``` -- Persistent storage for configuration
* ```${HOST_STORAGE_PATH}/repodata``` to ```/var/repo``` -- Persistent storage for repositories

Optional volumes:

* ```${HOST_STORAGE_PATH}/extensions``` to ```/phabricator/src/extensions``` -- If you have Phabricator PHP extensions, put them here

Before starting Phuntainer, create a file in ```${HOST_STORAGE_PATH}/config/local/local.json``` and fill it with at minimum MySQL configurations. An example local.json file is in this repo's [phuntainer/files/local.json](https://github.com/staehle/phuntainer/blob/master/phuntainer/files/local.json), which is copied to ```/config/local/local.json``` if it doesn't exist.

#### Environment Variables

```PUID```: Set this variable to the host Unix user ID. This will be used for file permissions.

```GUID```: If your group ID is different, set this variable. Otherwise PUID will be assumed.

```USERNAME```: By default, the container user "phabricator" will be assigned the IDs above. This username will also be used as the SSH user. Set this to something else if you'd like.

```DO_NOT_UPGRADE_ON_BOOT```: If set to any value, will **skip** the upgrading process for Phabricator and dependencies on container start.

#### Start the Phuntainer!

```
$ docker run -d \
    --name phabricator \
    --network ${PHAB_NETWORK_NAME} \
    --restart=unless-stopped \
    -p 80:80 \
    -p 443:443 \
    -p 22:22 \
    -e PUID=1000 \
    -e USERNAME=git \
    -v ${HOST_STORAGE_PATH}/config:/config \
    -v ${HOST_STORAGE_PATH}/repodata:/var/repo \
    staehle/phuntainer:latest
```

## Phabricator Configuration

Hey, you should follow this guide after starting Phuntainer: [Official Phabricator User Documentation](https://secure.phabricator.com/book/phabricator/)

Sometimes, you'll need to run some './bin/config' commands from outside the Web UI. To do this, you can use 'docker exec' to directly manipulate your running Phuntainer. For example, if you used 'phabricator' for the container name above:

```
$ docker exec phabricator ./bin/config set <key> <value>
```


## Building the Phuntainer image from scratch

You don't need to do this if you're just pulling the image from Docker Hub

```
cd phuntainer
cat build-cmd-latest | bash -
```
